# AST (exported type)

The node type that `transmute` will give to you as the root AST node.

It's an alias to babel's `File` node type.

```ts
type AST = types.File;
```

# ParseOptions (exported type)

Options that control how `transmute` will convert code strings into ASTs.

```ts
type ParseOptions = {
  typeSyntax?: "typescript" | "typescript-dts" | "flow";
  decoratorSyntax?: "new" | "legacy";
  pipelineSyntax?: "minimal" | "fsharp" | "hack" | "smart" | "none";
  hackPipelineTopicToken?: "^^" | "@@" | "^" | "%" | "#";
  jsxEnabled?: boolean;
  v8Intrinsic?: boolean;
  placeholders?: boolean;
  fileName?: string;
};
```

## ParseOptions.typeSyntax (property)

Which type-checker syntax to use.

Defaults to "typescript".

```ts
typeSyntax?: "typescript" | "typescript-dts" | "flow";
```

## ParseOptions.decoratorSyntax (property)

Which decorator proposal syntax to use.

Defaults to "legacy".

```ts
decoratorSyntax?: "new" | "legacy";
```

## ParseOptions.pipelineSyntax (property)

Which syntax proposal to use for the pipeline operator.

Defaults to "hack".

```ts
pipelineSyntax?: "minimal" | "fsharp" | "hack" | "smart" | "none";
```

## ParseOptions.hackPipelineTopicToken (property)

Which topic token to use when using the "hack" syntax proposal for the pipeline operator.

Defaults to "%". Only used when pipelineSyntax is "hack".

```ts
hackPipelineTopicToken?: "^^" | "@@" | "^" | "%" | "#";
```

## ParseOptions.jsxEnabled (boolean property)

Whether to parse matching < and > in the code as JSX. It is generally
okay to have this on, but if your code is not JSX, and you do some nested
numeric comparisons, or use < and > for type casting, you should disable
this.

Defaults to `true`.

```ts
jsxEnabled?: boolean;
```

## ParseOptions.v8Intrinsic (boolean property)

Whether to enable `@babel/parser`'s `v8intrinsic` plugin, which allows
parsing V8 identifier syntax like `%GetOptimizationStatus(fn)`.

NOTE: If you enable this, you CANNOT set pipelineSyntax to "hack" (which is
the default).

```ts
v8Intrinsic?: boolean;
```

## ParseOptions.placeholders (boolean property)

Whether to enable `@babel/parser`'s `placeholders` plugin, which allows
parsing syntax like `const thing = %%SOMETHING%%`.

NOTE: If you enable this, you CANNOT set pipelineSyntax to "hack" (which is
the default).

```ts
placeholders?: boolean;
```

## ParseOptions.fileName (string property)

The name of the file whose code you are transmuting.

If passed, parse errors thrown by `transmute` will be clearer,
and it will be possible to generate sourcemaps for the file.

When [ParseOptions](#) appears as a property on [TransmuteOptions](#),
if the parent `TransmuteOptions` has a `fileName` property, it will be
copied onto the child `ParseOptions`, meaning you don't need to specify
it in both places.

```ts
fileName?: string;
```

# PrintOptions (exported type)

Options that control how `transmute` will convert ASTs into code strings.

```ts
type PrintOptions = {
  printMethod?: "recast.print" | "recast.prettyPrint" | "@babel/generator";
  fileName?: string;
  sourceMapFileName?: string;
};
```

## PrintOptions.printMethod (property)

Which method to use to convert an AST back into code.

Defaults to "recast.print", which attempts to preserve source formatting
of unchanged nodes. If this doesn't matter to you, you can instead use
"recast.prettyPrint", which reprints all nodes with generic formatting.

"@babel/generator" will use the npm package "@babel/generator" to make
the code instead. If you encounter bugs with recast's printer, babel
generator may work better.

```ts
printMethod?: "recast.print" | "recast.prettyPrint" | "@babel/generator";
```

## PrintOptions.fileName (string property)

The name of the file whose code you are transmuting.

If passed, parse errors thrown by `transmute` will be clearer,
and it will be possible to generate sourcemaps for the file.

When [PrintOptions](#) appears as a property on [TransmuteOptions](#),
if the parent `TransmuteOptions` has a `fileName` property, it will be
copied onto the child `PrintOptions`, meaning you don't need to specify
it in both places.

```ts
fileName?: string;
```

## PrintOptions.sourceMapFileName (string property)

The name of the output file where you will store a sourcemap
generated by transmute.

Both `fileName` and `sourceMapFileName` must be present to
generate a sourcemap.

When [PrintOptions](#) appears as a property on [TransmuteOptions](#),
if the parent `TransmuteOptions` has a `sourceMapFileName` property, it will be
copied onto the child `PrintOptions`, meaning you don't need to specify
it in both places.

```ts
sourceMapFileName?: string;
```

# TransmuteOptions (exported type)

Options that affect the behavior of `transmute`, `codeToAst`, and `astToCode`.

```ts
type TransmuteOptions = {
  fileName?: string;
  sourceMapFileName?: string;
  inputSourceMap?: any;
  parseOptions?: ParseOptions;
  expression?: boolean;
  printOptions?: PrintOptions;
};
```

## TransmuteOptions.fileName (string property)

The name of the file whose code you are transmuting.

If passed, parse errors thrown by `transmute` will be clearer,
and it will be possible to generate sourcemaps for the file.

```ts
fileName?: string;
```

## TransmuteOptions.sourceMapFileName (string property)

The name of the output file where you will store a sourcemap
generated by transmute.

Both `fileName` and `sourceMapFileName` must be present to
generate a sourcemap.

```ts
sourceMapFileName?: string;
```

## TransmuteOptions.inputSourceMap (any property)

An input sourcemap to compose the newly-generated sourcemap
with.

```ts
inputSourceMap?: any;
```

## TransmuteOptions.parseOptions (ParseOptions property)

Options that control how `transmute` will convert code strings into ASTs.

```ts
parseOptions?: ParseOptions;
```

## TransmuteOptions.expression (boolean property)

Whether to parse the code as an expression instead of a whole program.

When this is true, the type of the resulting AST node will vary.

Defaults to false.

```ts
expression?: boolean;
```

## TransmuteOptions.printOptions (PrintOptions property)

Options that control how `transmute` will convert ASTs into code strings.

```ts
printOptions?: PrintOptions;
```

# TransmuteResult (exported type)

The result of transmuting some code. If the options you passed into
`transmute` had sourcemap-related stuff set, then the `map` property
will be set. Otherwise, it'll be null.

```ts
type TransmuteResult = {
  code: string;
  map?: any;
};
```

## TransmuteResult.code (string property)

The transformed code string.

```ts
code: string;
```

## TransmuteResult.map (any property)

A source map describing the changes between the original code string and
its transformed version.

```ts
map?: any;
```
